#labels Phase-Design,Phase-QA
This is for hard-core windows developers making a native binary installer. Perhaps you would rather mess around with getting the WindowsVersion working first.

== Dev Preparation ==

    # Make a c:\Dev folder
    # Make a GTK folder inside that
    # Put everything inside that

=== Install Python ===

64 bit Python will not work for this. I tried it.

    # Get python-2.7.3 32 bit from http://www.python.org/getit/
    # Install to C:\Dev\Python27
    # take a break while waiting for that to install

=== Install GTK+ ===

    * Read instructions on http://www.gtk.org/download/win64.php
    * Open up the README that you just extracted.
    * Verify that their instructions agree with ours.

=== Add System Paths ===

    # Open up My Computer->Properties->Advanced System Settings->Environment Variables
    # Scroll down to Path
    # Double-click it
    # Append the install paths:
    # ;C:\Dev\GTK\bin;C:\Dev\Python27 to the end of the Path system variable
    # Ok OK OK
    # You will probably have to reboot or log out and back in for the path to take effect.

=== Install PyGTK ===

Install pygtk-all-in-one-2.24.2.win32-py2.7.msi from http://ftp.gnome.org/pub/GNOME/binaries/win32/pygtk/2.24/

Test the installation
Open a terminal: Start Menu->"type in 'cmd'"->Enter
{{{
python
import gtk
window=gtk.Window()
window.show
}}}

== Gstreamer for Windows ==

    # Go to http://code.google.com/p/ossbuild/
    # Install GStreamer-WinBuilds-LGPL-x86-Beta04-0.10.7
    # Install GStreamer-WinBuilds-SDK-LGPL-x86-Beta04-0.10.7
    # Reboot or log out / in
    # Test with the [http://wiki.pitivi.org/wiki/PyGST_Tutorial tutorial]

*If the tutorial complains about an outdated version of Python* copy everything in:
{{{
GStreamer\v0.10.7\sdk\bindings\python\v2.7\lib\site-packages
}}}
to:
{{{
GStreamer\v0.10.7\lib\site-packages
}}}
== PocketSphinx ==

*This is the point where we are stuck:* Getting gst-plugin to work. Refer to http://cmusphinx.sourceforge.net/wiki/gstreamer

Compiling pocketsphinx on Windows, from svn, is going to take some time. Specifically, compiling _gst-plugin_ requires development headers and libraries for all of these packges, and their dependencies. The best way to make sure that all works is to download the sources for them.

    * gstreamer
    * pocketsphinx
    * Python requires zlib, openssl, ncurses, bzip, SQlite3 and libffi.
    * sphinxbase

We tried the following Windows binary download of PocketSphinx but we could not find the _gst-plugin_ binary anywhere in the package. We need this to connect to PocketSphinx via gstreamer in Python. They probably did not compile _gst-plugin_ into this one and I don't blame them because of the above.

    # <strike>Get from http://sourceforge.net/projects/cmusphinx/files/pocketsphinx/0.8/pocketsphinx-0.8-win32.zip/download</strike>
    # Pocketsphinx needs MSVCR100.dll which you can get from MS Visual Studio 2010, Visual C++ 2010 Express (for programmers) or vcredist (32bit) (for users) at http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/confirmation.aspx?id=14632

== CMU-Cam_Toolkit_v2 ==

We compiled the CMU-Cam_Toolkit_v2 for Win32. Copy the .exe files to the freespeech-vr folder (or put them anywhere in the computer's path if you want to use them from the command line).
https://code.google.com/p/freespeech-vr/downloads/detail?name=CMU-Cam_Toolkit_v2-win32.zip
